##Slime Escape

## Play The Game
https://play.unity.com/en/games/3c6a1ca6-1a7c-4295-8243-815f9c271eb3/slime-escape



Slime Escape is a 2D adventure maze navigation game built in Unity where the user controls a slime while evading patrolling enemies. The objective is to collect three keys scattered throughout the maze and reach the exit door once you complete finding the keys. The door is automatically unlocked when all three keys are collected. Users must act quickly to evade enemies in tight spaces as coming into contact with an enemy instantly ends the game.Colliding with walls only restricts movement and slows you down! Players win the game once they pass through the green door signaling all keys are collected.
What makes Slime Escape engaging is the addiction of trying to beat your best time, balance of exploration, and tense moments. Players have to time their movements to sneak past enemies while searching for multiple keys. This adds a layer of strategy due to the intentional control and navigation tactics. The visual feedback of the door changing colors upon key collection, dynamic UI that updates when collecting keys, and the danger of enemies create a simple yet engaging challenge. The best part?  The ability to try different strategies to get the fastest time.
	The most important game object is the slime (player). This is what the user controls to achieve the game goals and win. We also have enemies who patrol back and forth throughout the map and end the game in an instant if the slime comes into contact with them. You are able to come into contact with the wall game object as that would only slow you down. Furthermore, you will need to obtain the keys by touching them in order to open the door game object which will win you the game.
	Slime escape has one level which is completed by obtaining the 3 keys and walking through the door. Triggers are used to react with sprites to determine if a player wins and loses. I used multiple sprites within the game. The slime is an imported asset from a prior class and moves with either the arrows or WASD. The walls are square blocks, enemies are a circle and capsule stacked, and the keys are closed sprites that I drew. Prefabs in the game are the borders, walls, and enemies. Slime Escape has colliders incorporated on the walls, enemies, door, and on the slime in order to be able to react to the triggers. As far as rigidbodies, the only sprites that don’t have them are the door and keys. As stated above, triggers are vital in this game as they are used for the keys and the door mainly to adjust the UI and win condition. The UI is dynamic as it tracks the time during gameplay and updates as keys are collected. When collecting a key, a particle effect is instantiated indicating the key is collected and it disappears. I included audio in the background to intensify the game. Without this piece, the game feels incredibly flat.
	My game could be extended in various ways. The first way that comes to mind is creating more levels that get harder the more you level up. For example, adding more enemies that move sporadically, or bigger mazes. You could also increase the amount of keys needed to be collected making it harder because you have to stay alive longer. I would also extend the game by making it randomly generate mazes so players can’t memorize efficient routes. These two additions of randomization and increasing the difficulty are achievable ways I envision taking this game to the next level.
	Expanding the theme could be achieved in a couple of ways but,  more importantly, sprites that aren’t shapes should be used. Right now, I just used simple 2D objects (besides the slime) for sprites to create the game. Including downloaded sprites from the internet will add more realism and engagement to the game. Furthermore, this would allow the user to take it from just slime escape to other escapes. The possibility of having the user choose what sprite preset they want gives the player more freedom to make the game their own. Additionally, changing the background music based on the theme would add to the game intensity.
	Creating Slime Escape was especially challenging but very fun. I further learned how to use colliders and movement between sprites to create exactly what I envisioned. The absolute hardest part of this project was the triggers and having them react to execute UI reactions and win-lose mechanics. This is because the scripts had to interact with one another and I haven’t had a lot of experience with triggers. The only thing I’d do differently is try and load premade maze sprites because that alone took me about an hour and a half trying to make all the walls connect and look presentable.

